---
title: We're Hiring!
date: 2008-04-10T05:30:00
author: Graham Wheeler
category: Mobile
slug: were-hiring
---

My team is hiring. The job descriptions are below. PM me if you're
interested:
<!-- TEASER_END -->

Windows Live Mobile Search team is focused on delivering outstanding
search and local navigation experience on mobile devices.  Our goal is
to put the power of Windows Live Services right in your pocket. We own
creating addictively useful experiences for folks trying to search from
their cell phones. Our mission is to get every one of the mobile
queries. We do this by building best-of-breed browser and full-client
experiences along with a high-performance platform, and by creating
opportunities for users to experience the value through carriers or
direct distribution. We are enabling experiences on your mobile devices
such as Driving directions, 2D maps, GPS based navigation, category
search, product search, browsing detailed maps, finding movie times &
gas prices or just searching anything on the web your are remotely
curious about.  The field is full of stiff competition, but the battle
is far from won for anyone. We delivered award winning Mobile Search
(Live Search) client on Windows Mobile & Blackberry and outstanding
browse experience (m.live.com) that gets consistent praise. We
consistently win reviews against Google and Yahoo.  There is lot more to
do.

In Windows Mobile 7, we are building a world class, rich, immersive and
exploitive app using latest and greatest technologies such as
Silverlight & XAML.  We will enhance Browse experience by leveraging
best of breed technologies available in the industry today.  We are also
building highly scalable backend and high performance developer
platform. Our mission is to get every one of the mobile queries and be
the developer platform for search and local information.

We are looking for developers with the passion to stretch the boundaries
of how people connect with local information.  We’re looking for people
who understand the special constraints of the mobile world and have
experience building dynamic applications for mobile devices. We are
looking for developers who can work on problems unique to mobile
computing, from inception through the end of the product development
life-cycle. This is an excellent opportunity to help drive the flow of
information into users' hands.  The team offers an energetic
environment, solid growth potential, and a great set of people to work
with.

We have Senior SDE and SDE II positions.

**<u>SDE II (2 Positions)</u>**

We are looking for SDEs to work on our next generation rich client, to
create high performance platform and highly scalable backend.  You will
be leveraging best-of-breed technologies such as Silverlight, WPF, XAML,
.NET CF and IIS7.

A successful candidate will have:

· Passion for technology and UX

· Experience with the latest mobile technologies

· Solid experience designing, implementing and testing applications
written using C\#/C++, .NET CF, ASP.NET. Experience with WPF or
Silverlight is a plus.

· Good communication skills and the ability to approach problems from
the customer’s perspective

· Experience developing and shipping multi-threaded server solutions.

· Commitment to Engineering Excellence

· Bachelor’s degree in CS or equivalent industry experience

· 3+ years of software development experience required.

**<u>Senior SDE</u>**

We are looking for a Senior SDE to work on our next generation rich
client, to create high performance platform and highly scalable
backend.  You will be leveraging best-of-breed technologies such as
Silverlight, WPF, XAML, .NET CF and IIS7.

A successful candidate will have:

· Passion for technology and UX

· Experience with the latest mobile technologies

· Solid experience designing, implementing and testing applications
written using C\#/C++, .NET CF, ASP.NET. Experience with WPF or
Silverlight is a plus.

· Excellent and pragmatic judgment, good communication skills and the
ability to approach problems from the customer’s perspective

· Experience developing and shipping multi-threaded server solutions.

· Ability to work in cross-collaborative environments with commitment to
Engineering Excellence

· Bachelor’s degree in CS or equivalent industry experience

· 6+ years of software development experience required.
